W-15135730 GA branch for late Feb release jh (#23)
mulesoft/docs-api-experience-hub: modules/ROOT/pages/assigning-permissions.adoc

= Assigning Permissions 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: assigning-administrator-permissions.adoc

Anypoint Platform comes with predefined permissions that you can set in Anypoint Access Management to provide users with different access levels. You configure the permissions for administrators and Exchange viewers. 

> The Salesforce platform uses the System Administrator profile which contains permissions to perform specific tasks in Salesforce. For API Experience Hub, this profile is required for the user who performs the Salesforce linking.

Reviewer: >  For API Experience Hub, this profile is required for the user who performs the Salesforce linking.

From now on, the System Admin profile is not exclusively required to perform the linking. The Salesforce user could have either the System Admin Profile or the AEH_Anypoint Permission Set.

Author: Thanks for catching this @lucasaddisi. I update this sentence to add the permission set.

= Assigning Permissions 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: assigning-administrator-permissions.adoc

> Anypoint Platform comes with predefined permissions that you can set in Anypoint Access Management to provide users with different access levels. You configure the permissions for administrators and Exchange viewers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform comes with predefined permissions that you can set in Anypoint Platform access management to provide users with different access levels. You configure the permissions for administrators and Exchange viewers. 
```

Reviewer 2: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Term+Presentation+Reference#:~:text=control%20list%20(ACL)-,access%20management,-Not%20a%20title

> The Salesforce platform uses the System Administrator profile which contains permissions to perform specific tasks in Salesforce. For API Experience Hub, this profile or the AEH_Anypoint permission set is required for the user who performs the Salesforce linking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Salesforce platform uses the System Administrator profile, which includes permissions to perform specific tasks in Salesforce. For API Experience Hub, this profile or the AEH_Anypoint permission set is required for the user who performs the Salesforce linking.
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like "AEH_Anypoint" should be in a different font - probably because the underbar makes it kind of codey.

Author: Which font do you suggest?

Reviewer 2: Usually, we either put it in mono font or remove the underbar, but if that's how Salesforce handles permission sets, then it's fine.

== Before You Begin

> Consider the permission strategy for users in the Anypoint organization and Salesforce organization.

Reviewer 2: Is there a link to the permission strategy? Or more information on this concept?

== Grant the API Experience Hub Administrator Permission

> The Organization Administration and API Experience Hub Administrator can perform all of the functions to create a portal. Only the Organization Administrator or an existing API Experience Hub Administrator can grant a user the API Experience Hub Administrator permission. Grant this permission when you want another user in your organization to perform the Salesforce linking process, create and curate the portal, manage the portal, and manage users.

Reviewer 2: Is "Organization Administration" correct or should it be [Administrator](https://docs.mulesoft.com/access-management/permissions-by-product#:~:text=Access%20Management-,Organization%20Administrator,-At%20the%20root)?

Reviewer 2: [API Experience Hub Admin](https://docs.mulesoft.com/access-management/permissions-by-product#api-experience-hub:~:text=API%20Experience%20Hub%20Admin)?

Reviewer 2: If ☝️ correct, apply globally.

Author: Organization Administrator is correct and so is API Experience Hub Administrator.

To grant the API Experience Hub Administrator permission to a user:

> . Log in to Anypoint Platform using an account with the Organization Administrator permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Sign in to Anypoint Platform using an account with the Organization Administrator permission.
```

Reviewer 2: The [Anypoint Platform](https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/signin) page says Sign in.

Author: thanks

. Click *Access Management*.
. Click *Users*.
. Click the username of the user that you want to add the API Experience Hub Administrator permission. 

> . Select *Permissions* and click *Add Permissions*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *Permissions* and click *Add permissions*.
```

Reviewer 2: (lc in UI)

> . From the *Select permissions to add for this user* search box, enter *API Experience Hub Amin* and select the checkbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Select permissions to add for this user* search box, enter *API Experience Hub Admin* and select the checkbox.
```

Reviewer 2: I get no results, probably because I don't have the right permissions. Would it be worth adding a note?

Author: The intro section says that only the Org admin or existing AEH admin can grant this. I will add this to Before You Begin as well.

> . Click the blue plus icon.

Reviewer 2: In my UI, I don't have this - I have the Next button, though. I think I opted for the new UI, but maybe not?

Author: Thanks for pointing out the new UI. I updated the steps.

//=== Grant the API Experience Hub Portal Administrator Permission 

//If there is more than one users that manages the portal, you can grant another user within your organization the API Experience Hub Portal Administrator permission.

//. From *Access Management*, click *Users*.
//. Click the username of the user that you want to add the API Experience Hub Administrator permission. 
//. Select *Permissions* and click *Add Permissions*.
//. From the *Select permissions to add for this user* search box, enter *API Experience Hub Portal Amin* and select the checkbox.
//. Click the blue plus icon.

== Grant the Exchange Viewer Permission

> Administrators can only add APIs for which they have the Exchange Viewer permission. All administrators must have the Exchange Viewer permission to add APIs to the portal.

Reviewer 2: Are these two sentences saying the same thing?

To add APIs to the portal, administrators must have Exchange Viewer permissions for those APIs.

> When APIs are added to the portal, all administrators are assigned automatically the Exchange Viewer permission for the APIs added in the portal. 

Reviewer 2: Any way to streamline this? 

When APIs are added to the portal.... the APIs added in the portal.

> To grant the Exchange Viewer permission to a user:

Reviewer 2: a user or administrator?

Author: an admin

> . From *Access Management*, click *Users*.

Reviewer 2: This seems largely the same as the previous procedure. Any way to combine? 
Or actually, do you need to document this here or can you point to the access management doc for the [steps](https://docs.mulesoft.com/access-management/users#grant-user-permissions:~:text=To%20grant%20permissions%20to%20an%20individual%20user%20in%20the%20legacy%20roles%20interface%3A)? 

Typically, we just list the permissions required and point to AM for the details. See https://docs.mulesoft.com/mq/mq-access-management#give-users-anypoint-mq-access-permissions and
https://docs.mulesoft.com/cloudhub-2/ps-assign-permissions

Author: I'll combine those for now.

. Click the username of the user that you want to add the Exchange Viewers permission. 
. Select *Permissions* and click *Add Permissions*.
. From the *Select permissions to add for this user* search box, enter *Exchange Viewers* and select the checkbox.
. Click the blue plus icon.

> == Create the AEH_Anypoint Permission Set With the Minimum Permissions for the Salesforce User To Perform the Linking Process 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Create the AEH_Anypoint Permission Set with the Minimum Permissions for the Salesforce User to Perform the Linking Process 
```

Reviewer 2: or 

Create the AEH_Anypoint Permission Set with the Minimum Permissions to Link Organizations

//Apply the Principle of Least Privilege for Your Salesforce Organization

> A Salesforce user with the System Administrator profile is required to connect the Salesforce Experience Cloud and link the Salesforce organization with the Anypoint Platform organization. The System Administrator profile may have more permissions than necessary. For users with an existing Salesforce organization and potentially sensitive data, ensure the security of that data by following the principle of least privilege. Use the AEH_Anypoint permission set to configure only those permissions for the user who performs the linking process. The Salesforce user with the System Administrator profile creates the AEH_Anypoint permission set with all the necessary permissions and assigns the permission set to a Salesforce user. You can create the permission set manually in Salesforce or deploy it via your CI/CD pipeline using the *AEH_Anypoint.permissionset-meta.xml* metadata file. 

Reviewer 2: Is Salesforce Experience Cloud a product name? If so, then no article ("the").

Reviewer 2: may -> might

Reviewer 2: The switch between third- and second-person feels weird to me. 

Is "The Salesforce user" the same as "You"?

Reviewer 2: Don't use bold for [filenames](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#:~:text=File%20names%2C%20including,Mono).

> The permissions for the System Admin can be downgraded with the permissions set before or after there is a connection to Salesforce. If the Salesforce user is the same user who created the connection, then that user can be assigned to the AEH_Anypoint permission set without disconnecting the portal and creating the connection again. If you want to assign the permission set to another Salesforce user who did not create the connection, the portal must be disconnected and created again. For example, the original Salesforce user who connected to Salesforce left the company.

Reviewer 2: System Admin = System Administrator?

Author: System Administrator

> The permissions for the System Admin can be downgraded with the permissions set before or after there is a connection to Salesforce. If the Salesforce user is the same user who created the connection, then that user can be assigned to the AEH_Anypoint permission set without disconnecting the portal and creating the connection again. If you want to assign the permission set to another Salesforce user who did not create the connection, the portal must be disconnected and created again. For example, the original Salesforce user who connected to Salesforce left the company.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can downgrade the permissions for the System Admin using the permissions set before or after connecting to Salesforce. If the Salesforce user is the same user who created the connection, you can assign that user to the AEH_Anypoint permission set without disconnecting the portal and recreating the connection. To assign the permission set to Salesforce user who didn't create the connection, you must disconnect the portal and recreate the connection. For example, the original Salesforce user who connected to Salesforce left the company.
```

Perform the following steps to manually create the permission set, add the necessary permissions, and assign a user to the permission set:

. Create the AEH_Anypoint permission set:
+
.. Log in to Salesforce as the System Administrator.

> .. In *Setup*, enter `permission sets` in the Quick Find box and click *Permission Sets*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In *Setup*, enter `permission sets` in the *Quick Find* box and click *Permission Sets*.
```

Reviewer 2: (if Quick Find is in the UI)

> .. Click *Add*.

Reviewer 2: Any way to collapse some of these steps?

Enter `AEH_Anypoint` in both the *Label* and *API Name* fields and click *Save*.
...click *System Perminssions*, and then click *Edit*.

.. In the *Label* field, enter `AEH_Anypoint` exactly as it appears.
.. In the *API Name* field, enter `AEH_Anypoint` exactly as it appears.
.. Click *Save*
.. In the *Systems* section, click *System Permissions*.
.. Click *Edit*.
. Add the necessary permissions to the permission set:
.. In the *System* section, enable the following _required_ permissions:
+
* Apex REST Services
* API Enabled
* Assign Topics
* Author Apex
* Connect Organization to Environment Hub
* Create and Customize Dashboards
* Create and Customize List Views
* Create and Customize Reports

> *  Create and Set Up Experiences

Reviewer 2: Does this render correctly with the extra space?

Author: extra space, will remove it

* Create Dashboard Folders
* Create Report Folders
* Create Topics
* Customize Application
* Delete Topics
* Download AppExchange Packages
* Edit Events
* Edit HTML Templates
* Edit My Dashboards
* Edit My Reports
* Edit Tasks
* Edit Topics

> * Manage Auth. Providers

Reviewer 2: Does the UI have the period?

Author: yes

* Manage Connected Apps
* Manage Custom Permissions
* Manage Dashboards in Public Folders
* Manage Letterheads
* Manage Multi-Factor Authentication in User Interface
* Manage Public Classic Email Templates
* Manage Public Documents
* Manage Public List Views
* Manage Reports in Public Folders
* Manage Session Permission Set Activations
* Modify All Data
* Modify Metadata Through Metadata API Functions
* Run Reports
* Transfer Record
* View All Data
* View Dashboards in Public Folders
* View Event Log Files
* View Login Forensics Events
* View Real-Time Event Monitoring Data
* View Reports in Public Folders
* View Roles and Role Hierarchy
* View Setup and Configuration
.. In the *User* section, enable the following _required_ permissions:
+
* Assign Permission Sets
* Manage Internal Users
* Manage IP Addresses
* Manage Login Access Policies
* Manage Password Policies
* Manage Profiles and Permission Sets
* Manage Roles
* Manage Sharing
* Manage Users
* Reset User Passwords and Unlock Users
* View All Users
.. Enable any other permissions that you want to add to the permission set.
.. Click *Save*.
. Assign the permission set to a Salesforce user:
+

> .. In *Setup*, enter `Users` in the Quick Find box and click *Permission Sets*, and click *Users*.

Reviewer 2: Quick Find in UI?

.. In the *Full Name* column, select the name of the user.
.. In *Permission Set Assignments* section, click *Edit Assignments*.

> .. Select *AEH_Anypoint* from the *Available Permission Sets* list and move the set to the *Enabled Permission Sets* list.

Reviewer 2: Can you just say "Move *AEH_Anypoint* from the *Available Permission Sets* list to the *Enabled Permission Sets* list."?

Author: This is how it's documented in SF. I think it is ok.

.. Click *Save*.

> To deploy the permission set via your CI/CD, use the following AEH_Anypoint.permissionset-meta.xml metadata file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy the permission set via your CI/CD, use the following `AEH_Anypoint.permissionset-meta.xml` metadata file:
```

> . Copy the metadata file and create a file named *AEH_Anypoint.permissionset-meta.xml*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Copy the metadata file and create a file named `AEH_Anypoint.permissionset-meta.xml`.
```

        <name>ViewAllData</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewAllForecasts</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewAllUsers</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewEventLogFiles</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewPublicDashboards</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewPublicReports</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewRoles</name>
    </userPermissions>
    <userPermissions>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <name>ViewSetup</name>
    </userPermissions>
</PermissionSet>
----

. Run the following command and replace `path/to/permissionset/` and `orgAlias` variables with your path and org alias:
+
[source,code]
----
sf project deploy start --source-dir path/to/permissionset/ -o orgAlias
----
. To verify that the permission set was created:
+
.. Log in to Salesforce as the System Administrator.

> .. In *Setup*, enter `permission sets` in the Quick Find box and click *Permission Sets*.

Reviewer 2: *Quick Find*
